## Meeting notes 05/25/21

- Q: Bidirectional vs ingress/egress?
- Q: Distinguish between tags and labels? E.g. do labels always have certain
fields, tags don't. Is my way of differentiating tags and labels sensible?
- Q: Do tags have ever add semantic meaning from a security perspective?
- Q: Is my method for inter-json checks sound? Check refactored is subset, then
compare tags. Is refactored always subset?
- Q: Can you tell enclave by looking at the level of the tags?
- Q: Refactored json for example1? No tags? Where is TAG_RESPONSE_GET_A?
- Q: Difference between ingress and egress for case1 xdcc?
- Q: What are gapstags?
- Q: Will we ever see a non-allow guarddirective? When?
- Q: What does oneway do?
- Q: What does ingress/egress do?

- For Stephen: We need to unify our approach to JSON agreement with our
approach to llvm agreement. Enclave namespaces must be separate. First
validation checks, then inter-agreement within a reference environment which
is constant for each participant in the agreement. Agreement is subject to
rules which are encoded in Z3.

- During ProveEquiv, construct both PDGs (partitioned and refactored), with
annotations pointing to labels, and enclave assignments. Once proveEquiv is
done, encode each PDG into Z3 (separately), encode PDG rules from,
conflict_analyzer.md, encode label definitions from validated cle-json
specific to this PDG, and check. PDG nodes have enclave assignment attribute,
which the rules constrain, and which is already filled for partitioned PDG,
not for refactored. This covers the JSON<->LLVM check for the refactored and
partitioned program.

- Inter-PDG checks: how? If names can change, how do we match up variables
between original/refactored? This is the LLVM<->LLVM check between the
refactored and partitioned program.
