## Meeting notes 05/04/21

- Separate CLE-JSON for each file (refactored, orange, purple)
- Semantics are not reflected by annotations, only by JSON - no need to 'compare'
annotations to CLE-JSON. Annotations are only CLE labels.
- DO need to compare orange/purple CLE-JSON to original CLE-JSON to make sure
they express the same things, and that they are sane.
- The CLE labels in `orange.json` and `purple.json` should together, contain all of
the CLE lables in `original.json`, where every label in `original.json` with level
`orange` appears in `orange.json`, and every label in `original.json` with level
`purple` appears in `purple.json`. Update: FALSE.
- The only labels in `orange.json` and `purple.json` that don't appear in
`original.json` will be TAGS, which must differ only in their level.
- Variables and functions that are annotated in the original must have a matching
annotation in the partitioned code.
- Once JSON agreement is determined, code w/ annotations
is checked to see if it complies to security rules via dataflow/control flow
analysis, using constraint solving documented in conflict_analyzer.md.

- For meeting with Mike: need a machine with Ubuntu 20.04, vscode, and docker.

#### New steps

- Is each JSON individually sane (i.e. formatted correctly, levels OK)?
    - TODO: checks
- Do the orange and purple tags agree? Are orange and purple consistent with
each other?
    - TODO: checks
- Are the orange and purple JSONs, together, consistent with the original JSON?
Is all of the necessary information from the original preserved?
    - TODO: checks
- Is each `code.ll` file consistent with it's matching JSON? Do all annotations
have a corresponding label in the JSON? Are there any labels in the JSON that
go unused in the code?
    - TODO: checks
- Is the original program semantically consistent with its annotations? That is,
can the original program be partitioned (each function/instruction assigned to
exactly one enclave, plus other security rules) in a way that conforms to the
annotations/JSON?
    - For checks, see conflict_analyzer.md
- Likewise for the partitioned program.
    - For checks, see conflict_analyzer.md
- Variables and functions that are annotated in the original must have a matching
annotation in the partitioned code.
- Output formal machine-checkable proof and graph of the cut.
