## Cross-domain data format

This subsection describes the format of program data which can be transferred from one application endpoint to another via xdcomms, and the intermediate representations of said data.

### The `Data` type

xdcomms uses a simple type, `Data`, to capture a collection of program data which is eligible to be transferred cross-domain to another application endpoint. It is isomorphic to a struct in C; the purpose is to *lift* valid, serializable structs into the xdcomms informaton model.

```
type Data =
    dtype    :: DataType  // string identifier for this data format.
    contents :: [CValue]  // ordered list of fields, where CValue refers to 
                          // a typed value in C that is a scalar, vector,
                          // or serializable struct.
```

We restrict `CValue` to *serializable* datatypes, meaning a `CValue` is not a pointer, or, if it is a struct, the struct fields are all serializable (i.e. not pointers). Because application endpoints are physically and memory  isolated, pointers cannot be transferred cross-domain. Fixed-length arrays, however, are valid `CValue`s (because fixed-length arrays are stored by value in C structs).

### The `Marshalled` type

Serialization of data into a packet requires awareness of the network and the protocol between the communicating devices. There is, however, device-independent information that must be appended to the data being transferred; we refer to this process as *marshalling*.

The `Marshalled` type captures data which is ready for serialization; it contains the original data, along with a *trailer* that stores a sequence number and error-correction codes:

```
type Marshalled =
    mcontents :: Data
    trailer   :: Trailer

type Trailer =
    seq :: uint32_t
    rqr :: uint32_t
    oid :: uint32_t
    mid :: uint16_t
    crc :: uint16_t
```

Marshalled and Trailer are *packed* so that their fields have no padding, for ease of serialization. ==PERATON: What are the other trailer fields for?==

### The `Serialized` type

Before being sent cross-domain, data converted into an in-memory `Marshalled` struct with a sequence number and error correction codes must additionally be:

- Tagged with a GTag.
- Given a unique ID to distinguish it from other incoming request or response packets at the destination.
- Serialized into a stream of bytes in network order.
- Coerced into the packet format expected at the destination device.

This transformation is mediated through the `Serialized` type:

```
type Serialized =
    tag   :: GTag
    bytes :: [uint8_t]
    reqid :: RequestID
    rspid :: ResponseID
```

The GAPS tag, of type `GTag`, is a tuple of three tags: a `MuxTag` identifying the source and destination applications, a `SecTag` identifying the security levels between which the data is being transferred, and a `TypTag` encoding the `DataType` as an integer (so that it can be unmarshalled at the destination). So for `GTag` we have the type `GTag : (MuxTag, SecTag, TypTag)`.

The request ID `reqid` is set if this communication is a request, and the response ID `rspid` is set if this communication is a reply to a request. ==PERATON: Where are the request and response ID set? How exactly are they used?==

Conversion of a `Marshalled` struct proceeds in several steps. First, the `Marshalled` field is copied into a parallel (packed) struct, in which every field (including those in the trailer) is represented as bytes in *network byte order*. This requires that floats be converted into a device-independent bytestring format. Then, this parallel struct is cast to a void pointer and treated as an array of bytes, stored in the bytes field of the `Serialized` struct. ==PERATON: which part of this is device-aware? The codec functions don't seem to perform any device-specific packetizing. Is this hiding in zmq send?==

Conversion between a `Marshalled` struct and its corresponding `Serialized` struct is mediated by the `serialize()` and `deserialize()` functions in the device-aware `Codec` class (Section 3.4).